So why is this iterator thing useful here.
Well for two reasons at least I can think of right now.
One is of course you can make any object iterable all they have to do is implement this symbol here
and then you are able to loop through that which will allow you to loop through your own objects.
Now I will show you this later.
Another reason why this is very cool is you could also overwrite the behavior for example here for the
array.
We get back this iterator symbol and behind the scenes as we already learned does it thing here if we
don't execute it does it thing.
Here is an object we get back from this function.
So what we could do is we could also x' aere a symbol which of course is a function.
And we know that this function will return an object and we know that this object we get also needs
to have a function called next right because we can execute next.
So that's what we know about iterator.
Now what we can do here is in this function we get back here again.
Also we saw that getback an object law of return statements here.
But I think you understand my point.
You get the object with the next function recall here and then when we call it we get back a number
of check which has this done property.
Forth for example and the value 10 say we say 10.
Now let's see what happens if I run my code here.
Well now you see we totally changed the behavior.
We now get 10 10 10 and done is always false.
Now let's change it a bit more and let's say in our function here we have our next value which should
be 10 at the beginning and then we increment this value whenever we call next.
So we set next equal to well the incremented by one.
Then we return done which is false and a turn next value.
However we will return done as being true.
If let's say in next value is greater than 15 then this should be true.
Otherwise this is false just to turn it into ternary operation here.
Now I am not using my iterator here but instead I'll treat a four off loop.
So all true Yates is element of aere loop pure and I lock the curved element and of course here that
should be next value.
So what do you think will happen if I have to run now get 11 12 13 14 15.
So of course what I do find here we start at 10 with increment that before we return it for the first
time which is why the first one was actually 11.
Then we return done as being false as long as an x value is smaller or equal to 15.
And thereafter this done.
Now the for loop will simply loop through the array until done is true.
So until we have an x value greater then 15.
And with that we totally changed the way we loop through this array.
There's still a built in Aerie.
This a still a built in for a loop but with our overwriting here we changed the behavior of course we
could also have left the default behavior instead of just double everything or whatever.
And that is one big advantage or one cool thing about iterators and iterable object.
You can change the way they work including bold ones like the array like you see here and what you're
seeing here is function.
That's the core of each iterator that makes object and iterator it has this function which returns is
an object which again has this next function which finally returns as an object with done and value
.
That's what makes up an iterator and that's how you create your own ones.
And that's what I'm going to do in the next video.